xap101tut/index.markdown, before:

---
layout: post101
title:  Tutorials
categories:  XAP101TUT
---

{%wbr%}

{%section%}
{%column width=10% %}
![data-access.jpg](/attachment_files/subject/data-access.png)
{%endcolumn%}
{%column width=90% %}
This Tutorial provides a high-level overview of the GigaSpaces XAP platform. Hands on examples are provided to demonstrate the core concepts and API’s. The primary people who can benefit from this tutorial, are architects and developers who wish to build scaled-out applications with GigaSpaces XAP.
{%endcolumn%}
{%endsection%}


<br>



{%fpanel%}

[Installation](./installation.html)<br>
You will learn   how to download and install XAP.

[Interactive API guide](./interactive-api-guide.html)<br>
This tutorial lets you experience the XAP API in an interactive way. Three options are presented. The first two options demonstrate the various API calls you can use to interact with the Space. The third option provides an interactive shell that lets you exercise API calls.

[XAP in 5 minutes](./xap-java-in-5-minutes.html)<br>
This tutorial explains how to deploy and use a XAP [Data Grid](/product_overview/the-in-memory-data-grid.html) from a Java client application.

[Interacting with the Space](./java-tutorial-part1.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial we will demonstrate how to create a Space and how you can interact with it. We will also demonstrate how you can improve your space search performance by using indexes and returning partial results.

[Deploying a Space](./java-tutorial-part2.html)<br>
In the previous section  you have learned about XAP's capabilities as a data store. In this part of the tutorial we will show you how you can deploy an In Memory Data Grid (IMDG) that provides scalability and failover.

[Processing Services](./java-tutorial-part3.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial we will introduce you to the different processing services you can run on top of the Space.

[Events and Messaging](./java-tutorial-part4.html)<br>
The Space’s Messaging and Events support provides messaging handlers that simplify event driven programming.

[The Processing Unit](./java-tutorial-part5.html)<br>
The PU is the fundamental unit of deployment in XAP. The PU itself runs within a Processing Unit Container and is deployed onto the Service Grid. Once a PU is deployed, a PU instance is the actual runtime entity.

[Space Transactions](./java-tutorial-part6.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial we will introduce you to the transaction processing capabilities of XAP.

[Space Persistence](./java-tutorial-part7.html)<br>
There are many situations where space data needs to be persisted to permanent storage and retrieved from it.

[Web Deployment](./java-tutorial-part8.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial we will show you how you can deploy a standard WAR file onto the Service Grid.

[Big Data](./java-tutorial-part9.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial will introduce you to XAP’s Big Data interface. Will show you how you can use Cassandra and other Big-Data storage systems to archive data or use them for space persistence.

[Security](./java-tutorial-part10.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial we will introduce you to XAP security, where it fits in the XAP architecture, which components can be secured, and how to configure and customize the security depending on your application security requirements. XAP Security provides comprehensive support for securing your data and services.

[Spring Integration](./spring-integration.html)<br>
All XAP components can be wired and configured with the application using corresponding [Spring Beans](http://spring.io/).




{%endfpanel%}

Commit message:

adding http session sharing to tutorials

xap101tut/index.markdown, after:

---
layout: post101
title:  Tutorials
categories:  XAP101TUT
---

{%wbr%}

{%section%}
{%column width=10% %}
![data-access.jpg](/attachment_files/subject/data-access.png)
{%endcolumn%}
{%column width=90% %}
This Tutorial provides a high-level overview of the GigaSpaces XAP platform. Hands on examples are provided to demonstrate the core concepts and API’s. The primary people who can benefit from this tutorial, are architects and developers who wish to build scaled-out applications with GigaSpaces XAP.
{%endcolumn%}
{%endsection%}


<br>



{%fpanel%}

[Installation](./installation.html)<br>
You will learn   how to download and install XAP.

[Interactive API guide](./interactive-api-guide.html)<br>
This tutorial lets you experience the XAP API in an interactive way. Three options are presented. The first two options demonstrate the various API calls you can use to interact with the Space. The third option provides an interactive shell that lets you exercise API calls.

[XAP in 5 minutes](./xap-java-in-5-minutes.html)<br>
This tutorial explains how to deploy and use a XAP [Data Grid](/product_overview/the-in-memory-data-grid.html) from a Java client application.

[Interacting with the Space](./java-tutorial-part1.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial we will demonstrate how to create a Space and how you can interact with it. We will also demonstrate how you can improve your space search performance by using indexes and returning partial results.

[Deploying a Space](./java-tutorial-part2.html)<br>
In the previous section  you have learned about XAP's capabilities as a data store. In this part of the tutorial we will show you how you can deploy an In Memory Data Grid (IMDG) that provides scalability and failover.

[Processing Services](./java-tutorial-part3.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial we will introduce you to the different processing services you can run on top of the Space.

[Events and Messaging](./java-tutorial-part4.html)<br>
The Space’s Messaging and Events support provides messaging handlers that simplify event driven programming.

[The Processing Unit](./java-tutorial-part5.html)<br>
The PU is the fundamental unit of deployment in XAP. The PU itself runs within a Processing Unit Container and is deployed onto the Service Grid. Once a PU is deployed, a PU instance is the actual runtime entity.

[Space Transactions](./java-tutorial-part6.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial we will introduce you to the transaction processing capabilities of XAP.

[Space Persistence](./java-tutorial-part7.html)<br>
There are many situations where space data needs to be persisted to permanent storage and retrieved from it.

[Web Deployment](./java-tutorial-part8.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial we will show you how you can deploy a standard WAR file onto the Service Grid.

[Global HTTP Session Sharing](./http-session-sharing.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial we will show you how you can globaly share HTTP sessions with XAP.


[Big Data](./java-tutorial-part9.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial will introduce you to XAP’s Big Data interface. Will show you how you can use Cassandra and other Big-Data storage systems to archive data or use them for space persistence.

[Security](./java-tutorial-part10.html)<br>
In this part of the tutorial we will introduce you to XAP security, where it fits in the XAP architecture, which components can be secured, and how to configure and customize the security depending on your application security requirements. XAP Security provides comprehensive support for securing your data and services.

[Spring Integration](./spring-integration.html)<br>
All XAP components can be wired and configured with the application using corresponding [Spring Beans](http://spring.io/).




{%endfpanel%}
